hi everyone this is Ben francha in this
video I'll be talking about the seven
easy steps and planning for your new
website putting up a website it's very
much like building a house do you start
constructing a house without first
sitting down with our architect and put
up a plan or blueprint the same is true
in building a website you need to put up
a plan for your website to make sure
that everything that you want and need
is in place and at the same time
sticking to the budget the lack of
planning is normally the number one cost
of any web development project to fail
so if you don't want to end up spending
a lot of money or not finishing your
website at all I highly recommend that
you consider these steps so here you go
step number one do some goal-setting the
goal of your website should address the
primary objectives why you decided to
build a website in the first place so
ask yourself these questions what is
your primary reason for putting up a
website is it purely for online presence
to have a place for people to post an
inquiry or reach you online do you
intend to sell something or probably is
it just for you to have something for
sure the clients or probably investors
identify what exactly your website is
supposed to do and define what will be
the indicators that will let you know
that your website is successful and
serves its purpose step number two
define your target market identify who
do you want your website visitors to be
what are their demographics their age
gender location buying capacity all of
these are important things to consider
in designing your website step number
three design your logo your logo or
corporate branding should reflect your
preferred image and identity if you
don't have a logo yet you can hire a
designer online to create a logo for
your first loss one hundred fifty
dollars to help you have a smooth logo
design project you can download my logo
design questionnaire from WWE Ben
Franchi calm forward-slash logo design
questionnaire for it / just fill in the
blanks and hand over the answer
questionnaire to your chosen logo
designer to simplify the process step
number four let's down links to websites
that you wish
to emulate a good rule of thumb and
building a new website is see what works
for others and imitate the best by this
I don't mean that you have to strictly
copy everything about a particular
website just select bits and parts of
different websites and see what would
work for you then see how can you apply
those things on your own website adding
your own preferences and customizations
so start browsing other websites and jot
down some notes of things that you like
in terms of design look and feel and of
course in terms of features and
functionalities step number five lists
down features and functionalities that
you want to have do you want a shopping
cart do you intend to accept payments
online a newsletter probably how about
an inquiry form keep it simple and put
in only the features that are essential
step number six prepare your content
your content outline will be the basis
of your site map here you can summarize
what are the different pages that you
need the different sections of each page
the amount of copy to be written and
also the other types of content like
photos illustrations and videos that you
need to put in and finally step number 7
figure out a budget be honest to
yourself and figure out how much you can
spend websites as I mentioned in the
first part of this video are like houses
the range of costs depends and the
features that you want and need and most
of the time you get what you pay for the
first six steps of this list affects
your overall budget the information that
you will gather is needed to get an
accurate cost estimate from your web
developer you can sit down and work with
your web developer to get a good balance
between your needs and your budget be
ready either to cut down your wish list
if you have a limited budget or add a
few dollars if the cost estimate is a
bit higher than you expected and you
don't want to compromise the items on
your wish list you've also created the
web design and development questionnaire
that pretty much covers everything on
this list so just fill in the blanks and
you're ready to talk to your preferred
web developer can download it from wwm
Transcom forward slash web dev
questionnaire forward slash so that's it
for this episode I hope this helps you
prepare and plan for building your new
website this is Ben French again saying
you can be successful online you can
make it happen